the word of the Lord came again to me
now son of man take up a lamentation for
time and say to tyre you who are
situated at the entrance of the sea
merchants of the peoples on many
coastlands thus says the Lord God
oh time you have said I am perfect in
beauty your borders are in the midst of
the Seas your builders have perfected
your beauty
they made all your planks of fir trees
from Seanie they took a cedar from
Lebanon to make you a mask of oaks from
Batian they made your the company
of Asha rights have inlaid your planks
with ivory from the coasts of Cyprus
fine embroidered linen from Egypt was
what you spread for your sail blue and
purple from the coasts of Elijah was
what covered you inhabitants of Sidon
and Arvid were your horsemen your wise
man o Tyre were in you they became your
pilot's elders of gibble and it's wise
men were in you to your scenes all
the ships of the sea and their oars men
were
you to market your merchandise
those from Persia Lydia and Libya were
in your army as men of war they hung
shield and helmet in you
they gave splendor to you men of Arvid
with your army were on your walls all
around and the men of gamut were in your
talents they hung their shields on your
walls all around they made your beauty
perfect Tarshish was your merchant
because of your many luxury goods they
gave you silver iron tin and lead for
your goods
Javan tubal and Meshech were your
traders they bartered human lives and
vessels of bronze for your merchandise
those from the house of togarmah traded
for your wares with horses steeds and
mules the men of didn't wear your
traders many Isles were the market of
your hand they brought you ivory tusks
and ebony as payment syria was your
merchant because of the abundance of
goods you made they gave you for your
wares emeralds purple embroidery fine
linen corals and rubies Judah and the
Land of Israel were your traders they
traded for your merchandise wheat of
Menace millet honey oiled and farmed
Damascus was your merchant because of
the abundance of goods you made because
of your many luxury items with the wine
of hell burn and with white
dan and Javon paid for your wares
traversing back and forth raw time Kasia
and Keynes are among your merchandise
deed n' was your merchants in saddle
cloths for riding Arabia and all the
princes of Kedah were your regular
merchants they traded with you in lands
Rams and goats the merchants of Shiva
and Rama were your merchants they traded
for your where's that choicest spices
all kinds of precious stones and gold
heron canna Eden the merchants of Sheba
Assyria and Killman were your merchants
these were your merchants in choice
items in purple clothes in embroidered
garments in chests of multicolored
apparel in sturdy woven cords which were
in your marketplace the ships of
tarshish were carriers of your
merchandise you were filled and very
glorious in the midst of the Seas yours
men brought you into many waters but the
east wind broke you in the midst of the
Seas your riches wares and merchandise
your mariners and pilots your caucus and
merchandisers all your men of war who
are in you and the entire company which
is in your midst will fall into the
midst of the Seas on
the common land will shake at the sound
of the cry of your pilot's all who
handle the or the Mariners all the
pilots of the sea will come down from
their ships and stand on the shore they
will make their voice heard because of
you they will cry bitterly and cast dust
on their heads they will roll about in
ashes
they will shave themselves completely
bald because of you
gird themselves with sackcloth and weep
for you with bitterness of heart and
bitter wail in their wailing for you
they will take up a lamentation and
lament for you
what city is like tile destroyed in the
midst of the sea when your waves went
out by sea you satisfied many people
when your wares went out by sea you
satisfied many people you enriched the
kings of the earth with your many luxury
goods and your merchandise but you are
broken by the seas in the depths of the
waters your merchandise and the entire
company will fall in your midst all the
inhabitants of the Isles will be
astonished at you their kings will be
greatly afraid and their countenance
will be troubled the merchants among the
peoples will hiss at you you will become
a horror and be no more
you